---
layout: post
title:  "War Movies and the Desire to Live a Full Life"
date:   2023-02-27 6:00:00 -0500
categories: personal
---

I watch a lot of war movies. I've noticed two particular kinds of them: those that want to show historical events authentically (such as Tora! Tora! Tora!), and those that want to be anti-war (like the 1993 German film Stalingrad). Certainly, there are some that fall into both categories and go beyond them, but this is a useful generalization for what I want to say today.

Saturday night, I watched the 2022 version of All Quiet on the Western Front (Spoilers for it follow). It was a very good example of an anti-war movie, that makes the watcher feel absolutely miserable at times. The main character goes through an inredible amount of trauma, only to die a completely pointless death.

Whenever I watch a war movie of the anti-war category nowadays, I am reminded of the same truth: a life of peace can be upended in an instant. Every soldier was once a normal person, living their life not too differently from how you or I do, and in the blink of an eye, they find themselves surrounded by death, praying they can survive long enough just to return to what they once had. 

Being confronted by this, I remember once more how much I take for granted. A place to live, an overabundance of food, and a life of peace. These are three things I have never gone without, but they are not guaranteed. I find myself put into a frenzy, being grateful for every little thing in life: a sofa to lie on, a tv to watch the war film on, clean water to drink, a full stomach. No matter how long I keep that up for, though, I eventually forget, and go back to living my normal life.

Facing the realities of my fragile existence, it becomes all the more important to me that I embrace my inner Beethoven. Seize fate by the throat and wrestle what I want from life, regardless of what that may be. A mindset I've been trying to take recently is what I'm calling "Euphoric Mundanity" - looking at whatever I happen to be doing at a particular moment as if it is the greatest possible thing that could ever happen to me. I must have less reserve about saying what I want to say to those I care about. I must reguarly express my love to those who make my life richer. I must decide that my current situation in life is the greatest thing that could have possibly occurred to me, and think it into reality. I must find joy in every small success, for my life as I now it can be taken away from me in the blink of an eye.
