---
layout: post
title:  "Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans"
date:   2023-02-20 6:00:00 -0500
categories: wholesome
---

I’ve the always had a desire to watch some older movies (from before the 80s, approximately) just out of historical curiosity. A few days ago I noticed that the movie Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans was available on the local library system so I thought I might give that a try. I wound up really enjoying it surprisingly! 

If I had to describe it in one word, I would say sweet. At its core it's about a romance between two people, but instead of it being between two people who have just discovered that they loved each other, it's about a husband and wife rediscovering their love for one another.  I'm going to go into mild spoiler territory so if you're already interested in seeing this movie I would recommend you stop reading here.

At the start of the movie we see that the husband has become romantically entangled with a woman from the city, who persuades him to try to kill his wife on a boating trip So he can move to the city with her. However, once he goes on the boating trip with his wife he finds himself unable to go through with killing her. his wife is not dumb, and does see what he was trying to do so he spends the next section of the movie trying to win her back. This culminates in him leading her to a church in the city while another wedding is underway, where he symbolically renews his vow to love her and keep her safe from all danger.

What follows is my favorite section of the movie: the wife and husband simply being happy with each other, having been reassured that they both love each other very much. They go to a carnival together, they dance together, they get their picture taken together, where their photographer is so smitten by their love that he takes a picture of them kissing each other instead of the serious pose they were supposed to take. Here is where the format of the silent film truly shines: objectively, there is nothing too interesting going on in the story here, but the music and wholesome performances make me feel very happy for the husband and wife.

Then in the conclusion, Without getting too deep into spoilers, the husband solidly rejects the influence of the city woman. And in the final shot, we have the sunrise: dawn of a new day for the husband and wife, safe in each other’s love once more. I'm not one to cry at movies, but I did get very emotional at the ending here, and in certain parts throughout.
Thank you for reading this post! I tried something different this week by dictating my spoken words through Microsoft Word instead of typing out everything as I normally do. Looks like the result is that I am less efficient with my words and I have a bit more trouble communicating my ideas, so maybe this will just be a one time thing, or something that I’ll work to improve on.

Luke

