---
layout: post
title:  "Why You Should Embrace Your Inner Weirdness"
date:   2023-02-13 6:00:00 -0500
categories: wholesome
---

I've had the ability to speak backwards English for a long time. But I never thought it was particularly useful, so didn't use it very often except as a party trick in the rare social events I went to.

More recently, after feeling encouraged by a friend, I started embracing it more in my everyday life. I started backwards-ing sentences everywhere, made some corrections after realizing I had something wrong in my method, and using it more eagerly as an icebreaker at university. 

I made it such a big part of my being that when I was putting some touches on my resume, I decided to put "Speaking backwards English" as a hobby on it. I thought it might make me seem more unique to a recruiter, but didn't really think anything would come of it.

After applying to jobs, I wound up having several interviews. The first was earlier in the morning than I would have liked, but I wasn't going to let that stop me from trying my best. Once I got into the interview, I was surprised to find out that not only had the interviewers read my resume, they were impressed by it, and SPECIFICALLY asked me about my ability to speak backwards. I was so flattered that they asked me that, I was GLOWING for the rest of the interview. I discussed my other interests with them in addition to answering some standard interview questions, but it all went incredibly smoothly. For my final question to them, I showed them a joke I had written the previous week (my Georgia post on this blog, actually), and it gave them a good laugh. Not doubt, that is the best job interview I have ever had.

Fast forward about two weeks, and I got the job! It's a wonderful thing to be validated for having embraced something I enjoy doing, regardless of how weird it might seem.

Maybe you don't have a talent like talking backwards, but I bet there is some side of yourself you don't let shine because you think it's weird. I encourage you to try and show it off more often. You don't have to change your behaviour for everyone, and you certainly don't have to put it on your resume, but I bet you'll be glad you did it. After all, you will have been more of your genuine self :)

Ekul
