---
layout: post
title:  "The Game by Ken Dryden - Book Review"
date:   2023-01-02 16:48:02 -0500
categories: Book Reviews
---
Montreal is a legendary hockey team, having won 24 Stanley cups in its 113-year history. However, the last time they were truly the dominant team in the NHL was from 1976-79, where they won 4 consecutive cups. Ken Dryden was the starting goalie during that run. He had a very short hockey career of just 8 seasons, yet Montreal won it all 6 times during his stay. Ken Dryden is the author of the book I just completed, The Game.

It's pretty much an autobiography about his experiences with the game of hockey, based off notes primarily from his last season in 1979. Thought the framing device is a journal based off notes he kept for 9 days towards the end of the season, he flashes back often to effectively cover his entire life as a hockey player, even going beyond to give poignant dives into the psyche of many of his teammates and his coach, even some of his opponents, with really interesting perspectives on what made them and the team so good in that era. 

One of the craziest facts about Dryden is that for the first half of his career, he was a full-time law student while playing just as much as any other team's #1 goalie. In fact, in 1974 he took a year off hockey so that he could finish his studies. After hockey, he became an executive for the Toronto Maple Leafs and was elected to serve in Canadian Parliament later on. All that is to say, Dryden is much more of an intellectual than you would probably expect from a hockey player, and this shows in how the book is written. Though not perfect, it is really well done, with insightful analysis on pretty much every aspect of the game of hockey, from the frequency of penalties given by referees to the ever-increasing monetization of the sport. 

There is also a fair amount of discussion of the history of the game. Towards the end, there is an absolutely fascinating breakdown on how the game's culture developed in Canada from the 1870s to the 1970s, and how the Soviet style of play, focused more on keeping possession and finding open ice, was a foil to the straight-line, puck-focused mindset of Canadian teams. The book even goes beyond Hockey sometimes, discussing things like the cultural divide that had developed between English and French speakers in Quebec during the 70s.  

All in all, The Game is the greatest hockey book I have ever read (not that the other 2 were all that good to begin with). It's hard to compare it to SW novels, but I think I would put it in A tier based off enjoyment factor. I would say you could read it and enjoy it even if you're not a hockey fan, but I am far too biased to make that assessment. However, I do think that even the most casual fan would find something of interest here. 
