---
layout: post
title:  "Exercise and Intellectual Pursuits"
date:   2023-03-13 6:00:00 -0500
categories: personal
---

The library at my university has 10 floors. I decided to take the steps up to the 7th floor last week and realized that going up all the stairs there would actually be a decent workout.

So this weekend, I did exactly that. It was incredibly tiring. Just going up the 9 flights from floor 1 to 10 made my legs ache temporarily, and I had to catch my breath for a few minutes. Once I was on the 10th floor, though, I walked around and found some books that actually interest me. I was considering trying to read a book from every floor (well, only floors 6-10 have books for me to borrow so 5 floors) in my term from May-August, but while I was there I figured why not get my selection form the 10th floor now?

I found so many that interested me that I couldn't just take 1. I signed out two that are vaguely related: "The Decision to Drop the Bomb", about the final stages of the atomic bomb's development in 1945 and its usage on Japan, and "Star Wars: the Economic Fallout", about the 1980s US initiative to have nuclear missile defense systems in space. 

I think it's wonderful how my initiative to exercise more has now led me to embrace an intellectual pursuit. I've read the first bit of The Decision to Drop the Bomb and it does seem like it'll be a good read. I'm also very excited for Nolan's Oppenheimer coming out in July, so that certainly helps. Anyway, thank you for reading!

Luke