---
layout: post
title:  "Ranking the movies I've seen in 2023 so far"
date:   2023-03-06 6:00:00 -0500
categories: movies
---

I'm writing this post later than usual, so I want to do something quick and easy. Here's my rankings of the movies I've seen thus far this year:

1. Tenet: this was a rewatch. I saw it with a friend, and their reaction to what was happening made the experience way more fun. It's easy to forget exactly how bonkers the movie gets.

2. Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans: saw it for the first time two weeks ago and rewatched it yesterday. It has cast a spell on me. I come close to crying, and sometimes do cry, when rewatching bits of it. 

3. The Northman: beautifully shot, epic revenge story in medieval viking lands.

4. The Social Network: I revisit this movie every few years. Logically, it doesn't make sense that a movie about a social media site works this well, but it does.

5. Stalingrad (1993): unlike any other war movie, this just made me feel miserable, which is exactly what an anti-war movie should do.

6. Cocaine Bear: saw this in the theatre. A blast.

7. Tora! Tora! Tora!: very historicall accurate Pearl Harbour movie. Epic soundtrack.

8. All Quiet on the Western Front (2022): very effective anti-war message, but I did find it kind of boring at times. And the cinematography is too good for its own sake: it makes the carnage of battle look almost beautiful at times.

9. Memento: a rewatch. It has an amazing framing device and explores interesting themes, but the actual content of the story feels pretty... I don't want to say generic, but perhaps vapid.

10. Tar: the best scene in the movie happens 30 minutes in (in the classroom). The remainder is a very slow character study. I'm sorry, I wanted to love a movie about classical music but it's boring.

11. Avatar 2: saw it a second time in cinemas. Naturally the effects are pretty, but I am so perplexed by the character of Spider. Why does he do anything that he does with the marines???? And the older son feels so under-utilized. The story in general was not very engaging, though I do like the scene of the girl just staring into the sand. Very relatable.

12. A Midnight Clear (1992): So. Boring.



